still to this day I get emails and
messages demanding that i denounce the
vegan cheetah for those of you don't
know you can enjoy and understand this
video without knowing who he is he's one
of my fellow vegans you're on the
internet aight engage in digital
activism digital public education using
social media to get people talking about
veganism various ways and he's a guy who
in many ways I do not have much in
common with I've commented many times
it's hard to imagine that he if I if he
had I had met face to face that we would
have become friends the guy is such a
heavy smoker he's such a heavy nicotine
addict that it's hard for me to imagine
sitting in the same room with him and
having a conversation you know maybe if
we were outdoors on a porch no min was
taking away the cloud of nicotine that's
around more time maybe I could put up
with his company but I mean in so many
obvious ways he and I are guys who are
just very different to just have nothing
in common and it's kind of sad to me
that people can't look at the friendship
we have and say gee isn't that wonderful
the two people who are so different who
have so little in common have this one
thing in common have this you know
ethical commitment to veganism in common
and they're able to build a kind of
friendship round of you know very
unusual very rare sort of friendship um
a lot of people do not see that as
wonderful so I think you know on the one
hand there's this theme have already
talked about so many times the issue of
Tolerance I have videos that begin with
the word tolerance and end with the word
tolerance and where I come back to again
and again this concept have been laying
down let politics the virtue politics
requires is tolerance and being tolerant
if someone else is very different from
agreeing with them of being tolerant you
know you don't tolerate people uh you
have everything come with you don't
tolerate people you think are right you
tolerate people you think are wrong you
say okay I think you're wrong about this
but I'm going to work with you I'm going
to cooperate you it's etc and you know
the Internet has has kind of exaggerated
a tendency that was already widespread
in the left-wing I think after 1989
after the fall of the Berlin Wall where
people on the Left really define
themselves by a sort of moral purity
that consisted in denouncing others and
on the internet obviously they're people
literally spent hours each day whether
it's on Twitter on conversation forms
whatever denouncing others for being
morally inferior to them and still to
this day I get fan mail from people I
just got one the other day that was very
sincere someone writing to me saying
there were a huge fan of my channel
there were huge fan of me but they were
never again gonna watch my channel or my
content because i had not denounced the
vegan cheetah this other guy for his for
his opinions for things that you know I
some things of that I do disagree with
and other things that I mean different
to but just illustrate how different he
is from me you know they're more
idiosyncratic you might say not
necessarily matters of principle or what
have you um I think this is sad a bunch
of ways I got two points here first
there's a difference between debate and
denunciation and none of these people
asked me to debate the cheetah none of
them are asking me to engage in you know
like I I wish there was more debate even
between me and the people who are
currently my supporters or my fans I
mean it was wonderful that I got support
from vegan gains I don't have a lot in
common with the guy we're both vegan
obviously there's room for debate there
debate is not denunciation I was
wonderful I've gotten support from
unnatural vegan thanks to her for
shutting me out and so and she's done so
in the past you did so again now in this
the you know somewhat surreal
circumstance of living in however again
this differencing debate annunciation
there are many things I disagree with
her vote and I think they're worth
discussing I think they're worth
debating i'm not going to denounce her
I'm not gonna do what these people are
demanding i do with vegan cheetah i'm
not going to say she's a she's a
terrible person or what have you i'm not
going to turn this into a proof of my
own moral purity by showing how
intolerant I am towards her the whole
point is to tolerate and cooperate with
and you know build constituency with
people who you do disagree with you're
not trying to build a fanatical
puritanical religious movement you're
trying to build a broad-based coalition
where you know to different degrees you
interact with in cooperative people I
met several people through through
veganism who are heavily into BDSM you
know into being a dominatrix or
Dominator or this this kind of stuff now
i'm not against it i'm not i don't i
don't see it as a you know it's it's not
morally offensive to me but that's not
what I'm into that's not who I am but
you know why you know what you gonna
have this attitude of kick out everyone
who doesn't doesn't agree with you on
this unending list of moral principles
that tries to define who you are as
morally pure now the other thing is I
mean tolerance we most often hear about
tolerance and relation to issues of race
religion nationality gender we tend not
in English to talk about about tolerance
as much with these sort of fine specific
political beliefs like how we interpret
veganism how we try to implement it um
but look I'm an atheist and I have
friends who are Christians let's say for
the sake of argument I have friends who
are Catholic um I you know I want more
I'm a vegan I'm happy to cooperate with
and collaborate with and find common
ground with Catholic vegans okay think
about all of the terrible unforgivable
things the Catholic Church is done and
now think of all the terrible
unforgivable things that the vegan
cheetah is done you know Charles this
this internet personality you guys are
having such a such a great time Tara
park cool now if your point is that
morality is contagious that I have to
cut myself off from someone and denounce
them as evil because if I don't their
immorality is gonna catch on to me like
a disease that I myself I'm going to be
infected by how politically incorrect
they are that's that's the thinking here
is that if I don't cut off and denounce
vegan cheetah because he's made some
comments about what kind of women he
wants to sleep with on his Instagram or
these kinds of things you know which may
be in bad taste and you may be offended
and you can you could write into him I
think
yes she does reply to two fan mail hey
pill that kind he's aware of the fact
that a lot of what he says is somewhat
somewhat offensive I the idea is if I
don't denounce him and cut him off then
I am tarred by the same brush I'm
blackened by the same sin and I catch
the disease I become as bad and evil
anymore was him well let me tell you
something the Catholic Church within my
lifetime has covered up atrocities
including a pedophilia sexual
exploitation of children on an
unbelievable scale now you guys know in
terms of my scholarship and research
interests I've never been especially
interest in the Catholic Church but i
have read detailed accounts journalistic
and historical about sex crimes by the
catheters within my lifetime in Ireland
Spain South America Asia you know around
the world I of course in the United
States of America in Canada you know oh
god what they you know residential
school history sis you know history of
the Catholic Church in Canada you know
the the sex crimes alone during my
lifetime that the Catholic Church is
guilty of are so much more serious
exponentially deadly serious that
there's a solid argument that I should
refuse to be friends with somebody who
supported the Catholic Church during
this time or somebody who still supports
the catholic church today because
they're immoral and I should cut them
off that makes a lot more sense than
cutting off something like cheetah who's
a vegan and who's pursuing activism in
his own way who's discussing these
issues in his own way and you cannot
says and does some offensive things
reflecting the kind of guy he is which
is very different kind of guy I am and
yet you know we've all been trained we
all do know that tolerance matters we
all know that you have to tolerate
someone who's a Catholic or who still
supports the Catholic Church despite
this even if you don't agree with them
tolerance only matters when you don't
agree when you do agree with them
tolerance is irrelevant okay I disagree
with you but I'm going to respect you up
to a certain point it's naughty it's
less than respect its tolerance be full
you can feel free to disrespect them you
can feel free to disagree with them but
this is a whole different approach to
life on Earth and look if you go back a
little bit further it's not just sexual
exploitation of children it's not just
the sex crimes the catholic church the
Catholic Church is guilty of genocide on
an unbelievable scale of crimes against
humanity on almost every continent on
this earth and really like if you look
at the history of the Christian Church
in India you know there are episodes
that will horrify you you know so all
kinds of places that are not famous for
the Catholic Church being barbaric the
same way you for example South America
is or Australia is you know the role of
the various Christian Church and the
Catholic Church in Australia and Canada
what they did that virtual people it's
unforgivable it leaves a stain on the
whole history of the human race and of
course it it has to shape the way I view
Catholicism and anyone who would make
excuses for and in support of
Catholicism day it does in a really deep
way this is deadly deadly serious
whereas most of the things people hate
cheetah for are basically a joke um now
you so as I say if you were really going
to apply this in your life you were
really going to be intolerant and
judgmental in this way you would have to
cut off almost everyone it was a member
of a mainstream religion but certainly
Catholicism Anglicanism most forms of
Christianity uh and you would have to
seek out the company you know a very
narrow group of people who agree with
you in a long checklist of things and
pathetically that's what I see happening
on the Internet i started appening
before the internet with the left wing
in Toronto you know after 1989 so you
know there'd be people who you know
subscribe to a certain form of left-wing
feminism and believe all pornography is
evil and then they're only friends with
other left-wing feminists who believe
pornography is evil and over there in
the other corner of the room there are
other left-wing feminists who actually
think pornography is good and positive
and okay they're sex positive they have
a different view of it and they're only
friends with other left-wing feminists
who agree with the contact you know
these tiny counterproductive ultimately
you know invidious and hateful groups of
people cut off from everyone else and
most of their political energy instead
of an organizing dislike positive
goes into cutting themselves off from
others now look I've already said a
bunch of times you tolerate people when
you disagree with them I don't agree
with cheetahs use of the n-word which my
impression is he doesn't do frequently
but he has been caught a few times using
the n-word on camera I don't think it's
appropriate I don't think it's good and
I wasn't aware of it until a certain
channel 2 attention to it and when I saw
this video on this other channel they're
just [ __ ] i roached the guys oh you know
that's interesting you know what I'll
talk to cheetah about it and I did we
had a conversation about it in which I
you know expressed my reasons for
disagreeing with him and he expressed
his reasons for living the way he does
and living the way he does reflects the
fact that he's an ex-convict and some of
his use of language reflects habits he
picked up in President so on and that's
it I communicated to him as one human
being as another why I disagree with him
what my concerns were for the future for
our boobs for fun I'm gonna cut him off
it refuses to speak to forget for this
reason as conversely if you meet someone
who is a member of the Catholic Church
who gives money to the Catholic Church
who is giving money to support this
organization and who may be making
excuses to justify and vindicate that
organization despite the terrible crimes
against humanity they've committed just
within the last 50 years and I mean God
go back the last 500 years unbelievable
what is the meaning of tolerance in our
lives I close on this note people
sympathy it's not an emotion to be
wallowed in the point of sympathy is not
for you to feel good and pure and
superior to your fellow man who lack
sympathy okay sympathy is an analytical
tool sympathy is so important in
politics because it helps you understand
other people you should use sympathy to
understand the perspective of the other
side you should use sympathy understand
the perspective of people your own side
you should use sympathy to understand
the perspective of people who want to
cooperate with you want to collaborate
with you but who may be profoundly
different from you for reasons as
obvious of the fact that there by
Catholic there an ex-convict or hey
you know they're getting your straight
even if you're not homophobic in any way
you know sharing your life with and
cooperating with people who have
fundamentally different religious views
different sexualities different views of
the world you know it's a challenge but
I'm telling you guys it's worth doing
it's worth making the effort it's worth
having an open mind and an open heart
and reaching out to your fellow human
beings not to mention your fellow vegans
and trying to make something positive
happen it doesn't always work out
sometimes you meet people and they're
actually neo-nazis they're actually
communist extremists they're so far left
wing or so far right wing or so such
religious fundamentalists you can't deal
with them and say look I tried now I'm
done trying and I'm going to move on but
the reality is we live in a society
that's built on a history of colonialism
genocide war oppression slavery and
we're surrounded by all kinds of people
who still support those things I've met
so many Australians who are still Pro
genocide who's still actively support
you know their their recent history of
destroying their indigenous people I've
met so many white Canadians who are pro
genocide who you know because I was
working on first nations that was much
more aware of this who support basically
the extermination and forced
assimilation of the last remnants of our
native peoples and their languages who
want to see that disappear you know and
of course to me that's that's deeply
hurtful but I used to live in Cambodia
Cambodia is full of people they all
elderly people who committed atrocities
crimes against humanity were involved in
what we what we call genocide but mass
murder in Cambodia at the end of the war
they didn't have trials those people
just settled down and became normal
law-abiding citizens and lived as
neighbors with the people some of the
people used to be their victims okay so
life is full of these kinds of deep and
terrible contradictions and the question
of how Catholics and atheists and all
these different views and beliefs can
live together and work together and
cooperate together in society that's a
question really worth pondering and on a
tiny scale vegans who are maybe one
percent of the world's population
maximum I think we're way less than 1%
but i have no i have no viable
statistics for it within this tiny my
already you really want to break it down
further you really want to send me email
asking me to the dance the vegan cheetah
because of his blunt opinions about what
he finds attractive and a woman look
shame on you okay I'm trying to do
something positive I hope you find it in
your hearts do something positive to